okay I wanted to do a short video clip
today about a new John Eck style knife
I'll be making 2012 wall handmade knives
these knives will come with a she from
Harry savage this is a vietnam style
sheath
you can see in the earlier clip video
clip on this i've shown what it looks
like in the sheath laced up his jump
ready
these knives rule john a designed these
knives in 1941 to start supplying knives
to the military on a private contract
basis and it required a registration
card this is a model six has an eight
scalloped handle as you can see it's a
gun stock grade walnut try to get down a
little bit closer these knives were
designed with skull crusher type feature
at the very end of them the troops
opened up ammo crates with them also
this is what's referred to as an edge
and a half there's a full edge and a
half on the top to model six with cross
guard as lead-filled ribbons
actually balances literally laying in
your hand very nice balance on the
blades jaw neck described in his silent
partner not to throw your knife you
throw it you just lost a weapon that can
kill the enemy and I can see after
making this knife why he didn't want you
to throw it because it is not a balance
for throwing it is balanced to lay in
the hand and to be used in close
quarters like I say this is a model 6
with the cross guard it is my serial
number 153 and as you can see this is
the first one of the series that I've
made I'll be making these along in 2012
and we'll be making the model ones in
the model twos possibly a model 15 which
is basically a model 6 with some saw
teeth on the top edge looks pretty cool
these knives are ready to go razor sharp
and it made a little stockyard then John
Eck made his knives mine are made out of
3/16 carbon steel it's a no one tool
steel and it has a silver solder field
rivet all the way through the handles
are finished off in an all wax finish
for actually he suggested that the
individuals contour of the handles to
fit their hands so he included at some
point he included a little piece of
sandpaper for me to do that with again
this is a model 6 jaw neck style knife
that
while knives will be making in 2012
thanks for watching